cheat-sheet/Scripting/Bash.md, before:

See also <?add topic='Bash Regex'?> <?add topic='Bash Associative Array'?> <?add topic='Bash Functions'?>

## String Manipulation

    ${str:position}         # substring starting at position
    ${str:position:len}     # substring starting at position with length len
    ${str#ubstring}         # delete shortest match from front
    ${str##substring}       # delete longest match from front
    ${str%substring}        # delete shortest match from back
    ${str%%substring}       # delete longest match from back
    ${str/pattern/replacement}  # pattern replace
    ${str/#pattern/replacement} # pattern replace at front
    ${str/%pattern/replacement} # pattern replace at end
    ${str//pattern/replacement} # global pattern replace

## Parameter Substituion

    ${str-default}             # set 'default' if not set
    ${str:-default}            # set 'default' if not set (even if declared null)
    
    ${str=default}             # set 'default' if not set
    ${str:=default}            # set 'default' if not set (even if declared null)
    
    ${str+value}               # set 'value' if $str is set, otherwise set null
    ${str:+value}              # set 'value' if $str is set (even if declared null), otherwise set null
    
    ${str?error}               # abort with 'error' if not set
    ${str:?error}              # abort with 'error' if not set (and not null)

## Arrays

Indexed arrays require no declaration

    arr=("string 1", "string 2", "string 3")
    arr=([1]="string 1", [2]="string 2", [3]="string 3")

    arr[4]="string 4"

Check below under "Hashes" for accessing the different properties of an
array.

## Hashes

Since Bash v4

    # Hashes need declaration!
    declare -A arr

    # Assigning values to associative arrays
    arr[my key]="my value"
    arr["my key"]="my value"
    arr[$my_key]="my value"

    # Fetching values
    echo ${arr[my key]}
    echo ${arr["my key"]}
    echo ${arr[$my_key]}

    # Accessing the array
    ${arr[@]}         # Returns all indizes and their items (doesn't work with associative arrays)
    ${arr[*]}         # Returns all items
    ${!arr[*]}        # Returns all indizes
    ${#arr[*]}        # Number elements
    ${#arr[$n]}       # Length of $nth item

    # Pushing to array
    arr+=("new string value", "another new value")

## Here Documents

Bash allow here documents like this

    cat <<EOT
    [...]
    EOT

To disable substitution in the here doc text quote the marker with
single or double quotes.

    cat <<'EOT'

To strip leading tabs use

    cat <<-EOT

## Debugging Scripts

For simple tracing add a

    set -x

in the script or append the "-x" to the shebang or run the script like
this

    bash -x <script name>

As "set -x" enables tracing you can disable it with "set +x" again. This
allows tracing only a part of the code (e.g. a condition in an inner
loop). Additionally to "-x" you may want to set "-v" to see the shell
commands that are executed. Combine both to

    set -xv

## Writing Safer Scripts

It is a good practice to use

    set -euo pipefail

which ensures
- that you check all commands that can fail
- that you check for failing commands within pipes
- that you do not use undefined variables

## Network Connections

    # Establish a connection to 91.92.93.94:80 on file handle 4 with
    if ! exec 4<> /dev/tcp/91.92.93.94/80; then
        echo "ERROR: Connection failed!"
    fi

    # Write something
    echo -e "GET / HTTP/1.0\n" >&4

    # Read something
    cat <&4

    # Close the socket
    exec <&4-
    exec >&4-


## File Operators

The complete list of bash 4.2 test operators:

          -a FILE        True if file exists.
          -b FILE        True if file is block special.
          -c FILE        True if file is character special.
          -d FILE        True if file is a directory.
          -e FILE        True if file exists.
          -f FILE        True if file exists and is a regular file.
          -g FILE        True if file is set-group-id.
          -h FILE        True if file is a symbolic link.
          -L FILE        True if file is a symbolic link.
          -k FILE        True if file has its `sticky' bit set.
          -p FILE        True if file is a named pipe.
          -r FILE        True if file is readable by you.
          -s FILE        True if file exists and is not empty.
          -S FILE        True if file is a socket.
          -t FD          True if FD is opened on a terminal.
          -u FILE        True if the file is set-user-id.
          -w FILE        True if the file is writable by you.
          -x FILE        True if the file is executable by you.
          -O FILE        True if the file is effectively owned by you.
          -G FILE        True if the file is effectively owned by your group.
          -N FILE        True if the file has been modified since it was last read.
        
          FILE1 -nt FILE2  True if file1 is newer than file2 (according to
                           modification date).
        
          FILE1 -ot FILE2  True if file1 is older than file2.
        
          FILE1 -ef FILE2  True if file1 is a hard link to file2.

## String Operators

The complete list of bash 4.2 string operators:

          -z STRING      True if string is empty.
        
          -n STRING
             STRING      True if string is not empty.
        
          STRING1 = STRING2
                         True if the strings are equal.
          STRING1 != STRING2
                         True if the strings are not equal.
          STRING1 < STRING2
                         True if STRING1 sorts before STRING2 lexicographically.
          STRING1 > STRING2
                         True if STRING1 sorts after STRING2 lexicographically.

## Simulate Reading From a File

Sometimes you might need to pass a file name when you want to pipe
output from a commands. Then you could write to a file first and then
used it, but you can also use the "\>()" or "\<()" operator. This can be
used with all tools that demand a file name paramter:

    diff <(echo abc;echo def) <(echo abc;echo abc)

## History

### History Handling

Here are some improvements for the bash history handling:

    unset HISTFILE      # Stop logging history in this bash instance
    HISTIGNORE="[ ]*"   # Do not log commands with leading spaces
    HISTIGNORE="&"      # Do not log a command multiple times

    # Change up/down arrow key behaviour to navigate only similar commands
    bind '"\e[A":history-search-backward'
    bind '"\e[B":history-search-forward'

### Adding Timestamps

To add timestamps to your history set the following environment
variable:

    HISTTIMEFORMAT="%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S " # Log with timestamps

### Easier History Navigation

If you do not like Ctrl-R to nagivate the history you can define other
keys as PgUp and PgDown in /etc/inputrc:

       "\e[5~": history-search-backward
       "\e[6~": history-search-forward

### History Hardening

For a secure bash configuration add the following settings to your
global/users bashrc

    HISTIGNORE=""
    HISTCONTROL=""
    HISTTIMEFORMAT='%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S '
    HISTFILE=~/.bash_history
    HISTFILESIZE=2000
    readonly HISTFILE
    readonly HISTSIZE
    readonly HISTFILESIZE
    readonly HISTIGNORE
    readonly HISTCONTROL
    readonly HISTTIMEFORMAT
    shopt -s histappend

and finally mark the history file append only

    chattr +a $HISTFILE

## Misc

### Waiting for child processes

Via https://spin.atomicobject.com/2017/08/24/start-stop-bash-background-process/
    
    trap "exit" INT TERM ERR
    trap "kill 0" EXIT
    
    background_something &
    
    wait
    
### Kill childs on exit

    trap 'kill $(jobs -p)' EXIT

### Command Completion

How to setup your own bash completion schemas. Here is a git example:

    complete -W 'add branch checkout clone commit diff grep init log merge mv pull push rebase rm show status tag' git

    complete -p    # To list defined completion schemes

Note that the above example propably already comes prepared with your
Linux distribution. You might want to check default definitions
installed in /etc/bash\_completion.d for a good starting point.

### Kill all childs on exit

    trap true TERM
    kill -- -$$

### Apply ulimit Changes Instantly

The problem behind this is documented in [this blog
post](/apply+limits+immediately) but it boils down to try to use the
"-i" switch:

    sudo -i -u <user>

If it doesn't work you might need to investigate and change the PAM
configuration.

### PS1: Escape Non-Print Chars

To avoid incorrect line break behaviour when editing the command line
you need to escape control characters in PS1 like this:

    \[color definition\]

For example:

    \[\033[31m\] some text \[\033[0m\]

Commit message:

Upper and lower case built-in functions

cheat-sheet/Scripting/Bash.md, after:

See also <?add topic='Bash Regex'?> <?add topic='Bash Associative Array'?> <?add topic='Bash Functions'?>

## String Manipulation

    ${str:position}         # substring starting at position
    ${str:position:len}     # substring starting at position with length len
    ${str#ubstring}         # delete shortest match from front
    ${str##substring}       # delete longest match from front
    ${str%substring}        # delete shortest match from back
    ${str%%substring}       # delete longest match from back
    ${str/pattern/replacement}  # pattern replace
    ${str/#pattern/replacement} # pattern replace at front
    ${str/%pattern/replacement} # pattern replace at end
    ${str//pattern/replacement} # global pattern replace
    ${str^^}                # convert to UPPER-CASE
    ${str,,}                # convert to lower-case
    

## Parameter Substituion

    ${str-default}             # set 'default' if not set
    ${str:-default}            # set 'default' if not set (even if declared null)
    
    ${str=default}             # set 'default' if not set
    ${str:=default}            # set 'default' if not set (even if declared null)
    
    ${str+value}               # set 'value' if $str is set, otherwise set null
    ${str:+value}              # set 'value' if $str is set (even if declared null), otherwise set null
    
    ${str?error}               # abort with 'error' if not set
    ${str:?error}              # abort with 'error' if not set (and not null)

## Arrays

Indexed arrays require no declaration

    arr=("string 1", "string 2", "string 3")
    arr=([1]="string 1", [2]="string 2", [3]="string 3")

    arr[4]="string 4"

Check below under "Hashes" for accessing the different properties of an
array.

## Hashes

Since Bash v4

    # Hashes need declaration!
    declare -A arr

    # Assigning values to associative arrays
    arr[my key]="my value"
    arr["my key"]="my value"
    arr[$my_key]="my value"

    # Fetching values
    echo ${arr[my key]}
    echo ${arr["my key"]}
    echo ${arr[$my_key]}

    # Accessing the array
    ${arr[@]}         # Returns all indizes and their items (doesn't work with associative arrays)
    ${arr[*]}         # Returns all items
    ${!arr[*]}        # Returns all indizes
    ${#arr[*]}        # Number elements
    ${#arr[$n]}       # Length of $nth item

    # Pushing to array
    arr+=("new string value", "another new value")

## Here Documents

Bash allow here documents like this

    cat <<EOT
    [...]
    EOT

To disable substitution in the here doc text quote the marker with
single or double quotes.

    cat <<'EOT'

To strip leading tabs use

    cat <<-EOT

## Debugging Scripts

For simple tracing add a

    set -x

in the script or append the "-x" to the shebang or run the script like
this

    bash -x <script name>

As "set -x" enables tracing you can disable it with "set +x" again. This
allows tracing only a part of the code (e.g. a condition in an inner
loop). Additionally to "-x" you may want to set "-v" to see the shell
commands that are executed. Combine both to

    set -xv

## Writing Safer Scripts

It is a good practice to use

    set -euo pipefail

which ensures
- that you check all commands that can fail
- that you check for failing commands within pipes
- that you do not use undefined variables

## Network Connections

    # Establish a connection to 91.92.93.94:80 on file handle 4 with
    if ! exec 4<> /dev/tcp/91.92.93.94/80; then
        echo "ERROR: Connection failed!"
    fi

    # Write something
    echo -e "GET / HTTP/1.0\n" >&4

    # Read something
    cat <&4

    # Close the socket
    exec <&4-
    exec >&4-


## File Operators

The complete list of bash 4.2 test operators:

          -a FILE        True if file exists.
          -b FILE        True if file is block special.
          -c FILE        True if file is character special.
          -d FILE        True if file is a directory.
          -e FILE        True if file exists.
          -f FILE        True if file exists and is a regular file.
          -g FILE        True if file is set-group-id.
          -h FILE        True if file is a symbolic link.
          -L FILE        True if file is a symbolic link.
          -k FILE        True if file has its `sticky' bit set.
          -p FILE        True if file is a named pipe.
          -r FILE        True if file is readable by you.
          -s FILE        True if file exists and is not empty.
          -S FILE        True if file is a socket.
          -t FD          True if FD is opened on a terminal.
          -u FILE        True if the file is set-user-id.
          -w FILE        True if the file is writable by you.
          -x FILE        True if the file is executable by you.
          -O FILE        True if the file is effectively owned by you.
          -G FILE        True if the file is effectively owned by your group.
          -N FILE        True if the file has been modified since it was last read.
        
          FILE1 -nt FILE2  True if file1 is newer than file2 (according to
                           modification date).
        
          FILE1 -ot FILE2  True if file1 is older than file2.
        
          FILE1 -ef FILE2  True if file1 is a hard link to file2.

## String Operators

The complete list of bash 4.2 string operators:

          -z STRING      True if string is empty.
        
          -n STRING
             STRING      True if string is not empty.
        
          STRING1 = STRING2
                         True if the strings are equal.
          STRING1 != STRING2
                         True if the strings are not equal.
          STRING1 < STRING2
                         True if STRING1 sorts before STRING2 lexicographically.
          STRING1 > STRING2
                         True if STRING1 sorts after STRING2 lexicographically.

## Simulate Reading From a File

Sometimes you might need to pass a file name when you want to pipe
output from a commands. Then you could write to a file first and then
used it, but you can also use the "\>()" or "\<()" operator. This can be
used with all tools that demand a file name paramter:

    diff <(echo abc;echo def) <(echo abc;echo abc)

## History

### History Handling

Here are some improvements for the bash history handling:

    unset HISTFILE      # Stop logging history in this bash instance
    HISTIGNORE="[ ]*"   # Do not log commands with leading spaces
    HISTIGNORE="&"      # Do not log a command multiple times

    # Change up/down arrow key behaviour to navigate only similar commands
    bind '"\e[A":history-search-backward'
    bind '"\e[B":history-search-forward'

### Adding Timestamps

To add timestamps to your history set the following environment
variable:

    HISTTIMEFORMAT="%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S " # Log with timestamps

### Easier History Navigation

If you do not like Ctrl-R to nagivate the history you can define other
keys as PgUp and PgDown in /etc/inputrc:

       "\e[5~": history-search-backward
       "\e[6~": history-search-forward

### History Hardening

For a secure bash configuration add the following settings to your
global/users bashrc

    HISTIGNORE=""
    HISTCONTROL=""
    HISTTIMEFORMAT='%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S '
    HISTFILE=~/.bash_history
    HISTFILESIZE=2000
    readonly HISTFILE
    readonly HISTSIZE
    readonly HISTFILESIZE
    readonly HISTIGNORE
    readonly HISTCONTROL
    readonly HISTTIMEFORMAT
    shopt -s histappend

and finally mark the history file append only

    chattr +a $HISTFILE

## Misc

### Waiting for child processes

Via https://spin.atomicobject.com/2017/08/24/start-stop-bash-background-process/
    
    trap "exit" INT TERM ERR
    trap "kill 0" EXIT
    
    background_something &
    
    wait
    
### Kill childs on exit

    trap 'kill $(jobs -p)' EXIT

### Command Completion

How to setup your own bash completion schemas. Here is a git example:

    complete -W 'add branch checkout clone commit diff grep init log merge mv pull push rebase rm show status tag' git

    complete -p    # To list defined completion schemes

Note that the above example propably already comes prepared with your
Linux distribution. You might want to check default definitions
installed in /etc/bash\_completion.d for a good starting point.

### Kill all childs on exit

    trap true TERM
    kill -- -$$

### Apply ulimit Changes Instantly

The problem behind this is documented in [this blog
post](/apply+limits+immediately) but it boils down to try to use the
"-i" switch:

    sudo -i -u <user>

If it doesn't work you might need to investigate and change the PAM
configuration.

### PS1: Escape Non-Print Chars

To avoid incorrect line break behaviour when editing the command line
you need to escape control characters in PS1 like this:

    \[color definition\]

For example:

    \[\033[31m\] some text \[\033[0m\]
