cheat-sheet/Containers/Docker.md, before:

### Commands

Note <container> is either a container id, or a container name (if such is given to a container with the --name option on start). Both can be obtained with the "docker ps -a" command. <image> is either an image id, or an image name. Both can be obtained with the "docker image" command. Do not confuse with container id/name!

    docker ps                           # List running instances
    docker ps -a                        # List all instances
    docker inspect <container>          # Instance details
    docker top     <container>          # Instance processes
    docker logs    <container>          # Instance console log
    docker port    <container>          # Shows container's port mapping. The same can be seen with "docker ps" though (row - "PORTS")
    docker diff    <container>          # Shows changes on container's filesystem. Will produce a list of files and folders prefixed by a
                                        # character. "A" is for "added", "C" is for changed.
    docker stats   <container>          # Shows the consumed by the container resources (memory, CPU, network bandwidth)
    
    
                                          

    docker run -i -t ubuntu /bin/bash   # New instance from image. "-i" is for "interactive" and "t" is for terminal. Without "it" it
                                        # won't be interactive - you will get a shell/terminal, but will not be able to type anything onto 
                                        # it. Without "t" you will not get a terminal opened. The command will run and exit.
                                        
    docker run -i -t --rm ubuntu /bin/bash # If you need a one-time container, then use the --rm option. Thus, once you exit the container,
                                        # it will be removed                                  
                                         

    docker start   <container>
    docker restart <container>
    docker stop    <container>
    docker attach  <container>
    docker rm      <container>          # Removes / deletes a container (do not confuse with the "rmi" command - it removes an image!).
                                        # The container must be stopped in beforehand.

    docker cp '<id>':/data/file .       # Copy file out of container

    docker images                       # List locally stored images
    docker rmi <image>                  # Removes / deletes a locally stored image
    docker save -o <tarball> <image>    # Saves a local image as a tarball, so you can archive/transfer or inspect its content
                                        # Example: docker save -o /tmp/myimage.tar busybox
    docker history <image>              # Shows image creation history. Useful if you want to "recreate" the Dockerfile of an image -
                                        # in cases where you are interested how the image has been created.

### Dockerfile Examples

Installing packages

    FROM debian:wheezy
    RUN apt-get update
    RUN apt-get -y install python git

Adding users

    RUN useradd jsmith -u 1001 -s /bin/bash

Defining work directories and environment

    WORKDIR /home/jsmith/
    ENV HOME /home/jsmith

Mounts

    VOLUME ["/home"]

Opening ports

    EXPOSE 22
    EXPOSE 80

Start command

    USER jsmith
    WORKDIR /home/jsmith/
    ENTRYPOINT bin/my-start-script.sh
    
[Setting timezone](https://serverfault.com/a/683651)

    ENV TZ=America/Los_Angeles
    RUN ln -snf /usr/share/zoneinfo/$TZ /etc/localtime && echo $TZ > /etc/timezone


### Misc

-   [kubernetes](https://github.com/googlecloudplatform/kubernetes):
    Docker container cluster management
-   [CoreOS Rocket](https://coreos.com/blog/rocket/) (commercial Docker
    alternative)
-   [Amazon EC2 Container Service](http://aws.amazon.com/ecs/) - Docker
    container support on AWS
-   [Docker Patterns](http://www.hokstad.com/docker/patterns) -
    container inheritance examples
-   [Docker Bench
    Security](https://github.com/docker/docker-bench-security) - Test
    Docker containers for security issues
-   [Docker OpenSCAP
    Checks](https://github.com/OpenSCAP/container-compliance)
-   [Container Hardening
    Script](https://gist.github.com/jumanjiman/f9d3db977846c163df12)

### Best Practices for Images

- When using ext4: disable journaling

Commit message:

Add multi-stage build hints

cheat-sheet/Containers/Docker.md, after:

### Commands

Note <container> is either a container id, or a container name (if such is given to a container with the --name option on start). Both can be obtained with the "docker ps -a" command. <image> is either an image id, or an image name. Both can be obtained with the "docker image" command. Do not confuse with container id/name!

    docker ps                           # List running instances
    docker ps -a                        # List all instances
    docker inspect <container>          # Instance details
    docker top     <container>          # Instance processes
    docker logs    <container>          # Instance console log
    docker port    <container>          # Shows container's port mapping. The same can be seen with "docker ps" though (row - "PORTS")
    docker diff    <container>          # Shows changes on container's filesystem. Will produce a list of files and folders prefixed by a
                                        # character. "A" is for "added", "C" is for changed.
    docker stats   <container>          # Shows the consumed by the container resources (memory, CPU, network bandwidth)
    
    
                                          

    docker run -i -t ubuntu /bin/bash   # New instance from image. "-i" is for "interactive" and "t" is for terminal. Without "it" it
                                        # won't be interactive - you will get a shell/terminal, but will not be able to type anything onto 
                                        # it. Without "t" you will not get a terminal opened. The command will run and exit.
                                        
    docker run -i -t --rm ubuntu /bin/bash # If you need a one-time container, then use the --rm option. Thus, once you exit the container,
                                        # it will be removed                                  
                                         

    docker start   <container>
    docker restart <container>
    docker stop    <container>
    docker attach  <container>
    docker rm      <container>          # Removes / deletes a container (do not confuse with the "rmi" command - it removes an image!).
                                        # The container must be stopped in beforehand.

    docker cp '<id>':/data/file .       # Copy file out of container

    docker images                       # List locally stored images
    docker rmi <image>                  # Removes / deletes a locally stored image
    docker save -o <tarball> <image>    # Saves a local image as a tarball, so you can archive/transfer or inspect its content
                                        # Example: docker save -o /tmp/myimage.tar busybox
    docker history <image>              # Shows image creation history. Useful if you want to "recreate" the Dockerfile of an image -
                                        # in cases where you are interested how the image has been created.

### Dockerfile Examples

Installing packages

    FROM debian:wheezy
    RUN apt-get update
    RUN apt-get -y install python git

Adding users

    RUN useradd jsmith -u 1001 -s /bin/bash

Defining work directories and environment

    WORKDIR /home/jsmith/
    ENV HOME /home/jsmith

Mounts

    VOLUME ["/home"]

Opening ports

    EXPOSE 22
    EXPOSE 80

Start command

    USER jsmith
    WORKDIR /home/jsmith/
    ENTRYPOINT bin/my-start-script.sh
    
[Setting timezone](https://serverfault.com/a/683651)

    ENV TZ=America/Los_Angeles
    RUN ln -snf /usr/share/zoneinfo/$TZ /etc/localtime && echo $TZ > /etc/timezone

### Multi-stage Dockerfiles

Starting with Docker 17.05 you can do [https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/multistage-build/#use-multi-stage-builds](multi-stage builds) by having multiple FROM commands in one Dockerfile

    FROM image1
    ...
    
    FROM image2
    ...
    
Above syntax example will automatically trigger two builds. Stages also can be named:

    FROM image1 as stage1
    
and explicitely called on the CLI

    docker build --target stage1 ...

### Misc

-   [kubernetes](https://github.com/googlecloudplatform/kubernetes):
    Docker container cluster management
-   [CoreOS Rocket](https://coreos.com/blog/rocket/) (commercial Docker
    alternative)
-   [Amazon EC2 Container Service](http://aws.amazon.com/ecs/) - Docker
    container support on AWS
-   [Docker Patterns](http://www.hokstad.com/docker/patterns) -
    container inheritance examples
-   [Docker Bench
    Security](https://github.com/docker/docker-bench-security) - Test
    Docker containers for security issues
-   [Docker OpenSCAP
    Checks](https://github.com/OpenSCAP/container-compliance)
-   [Container Hardening
    Script](https://gist.github.com/jumanjiman/f9d3db977846c163df12)

### Best Practices for Images

- When using ext4: disable journaling
